for the purposes of filling this projects requirment of a readme, I am inlcuding one in the root folder for the project submission. I am only includingthe intoduction of the project write up due to lack of time to format my entire word document as a markdown file. Note: if you would like to me to submit a full markdown file of my report with the tables and figures, I can do this, I just have a lot of grading to do this wekeend and this is due at noon today. The full prject write up is a pdf file in the main folder.

# Introduction
  Dairy cropping systems and concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs) are farm enterprises that convert on-farm grown and purchased feeds into milk and/or meat and manure (Haith & Atkinson, 1977). Manure is used to fertilize crops, and good manure management follows the four R’s of fertilizer application (Right rate, source, placement, and timing) to minimize nutrient loss to surface and subsurface runoff (Easton et al., 2017). For example, in cold-climate agroecosystems, winter-time manure application is banned because frozen soils increase nutrient runoff potential. Also, farmers must pay close attention to the weather during the summer as to not apply manure too soon before a major rainfall event. Due to a variety of factors (e.g. inaccurate weather forecasts, limited manure storage) the four R’s are not always followed to a tee, thus accurate water quality models are needed to estimate the origin of nutrient pollution for environmental decision making (Fu et al., 2020). Even for regulated CAFOs that require nutrient management plans and are told which fields are acceptable for manure application, farms and state agencies are not required to disclose manure application dates if they were recorded (Shea et al., 2022). Less is known about smaller, unregulated CAFOs. Thus, there is a gap in knowledge surrounding the location and timing of manure application events. Remote sensing can be used to estimate the spatial and temporal nature of manure applications, providing modelers with an important explanatory variable of nutrient loss (Chugg et al., 2022; Dodin et al., 2021; Shea et al., 2022).

  So far, only three remote sensing based methods for manure application detection have been published. Radar data was used to quantify changes in soil moisture to detect liquid manure application (Shea et al., 2022). A convolution neural network was trained using labeled imagery to find changes in image time series, which was used to detect manure application events in real time (Chugg et al., 2022). The final method uses multispectral band indices, taking advantage of the unique spectral reflectance of manure (Dodin et al., 2021). 

  This project uses the multispectral imagery approach because it is the simplest of three methods currently researched for manure application event detection. The research using multi-spectral imagery for detecting manure applications uses spectral band indices originally developed to estimate crop residues and soil organic carbon (SOC) content. The indices for estimating SOC content were used to detect exogenous organic matter (EOM, analogous to manure application) applications due to similarities in the chemical composition of SOC and EOM. The goal of this research is to replicate the methods of (Dodin et al., 2021) at a dairy farm in Vermont. 

